Public API basics (#1)
gopollock/public-api: README.md

Your access token must be sent in Auth header with a request in the following schema:

```
Authorization: JWT ${accessToken}
```

#### Get testing access token
The easiest way to get an access token for some test purposes is through classtime website:
1. Go to a [Classtime website](https://www.classtime.com/auth/login) and authorize using any method (e.g. with Google).
2. Open "classtime.com" cookies in the developer console of the browser. (see e.g. [how to do it in Google Chrome](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/application/cookies/#open))
3. Copy the value of the cookie with the name: "service-jwt-0". It is the access token of your teacher account.

## JSON requests

JSON requests are the easiest point to start. However, we are recommending to use binary requests.  
Note: **All requests use the HTTP POST method**

### Public AccountService.login call:
```bash
curl -v https://www.classtime.com/service/public/Account/login \
    -X POST \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json,*/*' \
    -d '{ provider: "Google", role: "Teacher" }'
```
```json

> Response: { "redirectUrl": "https://accounts.google.com..." }

Reviewer: Better to put the Reponse: above the json, then the code block has a valid json syntax.

# Classtime public API

> Classtime server works on gRCP-based API. In this repository under [the services directory](https://github.com/gopollock/public-api/tree/main/services), you would be able to find all interface definitions and protobuf messages. However, we also support plain [JSON requests](https://github.com/gopollock/public-api/tree/main#json-requests) based on protobuf messages.

Author: Some links might not work at this point. They are pointing to a main branch, which doesn't have the required file or folders yet.

Replacing `.../tree/main` with `.../tree/guidance` would help to heal a link.

- `AccountService` with `@Public` service annotation, which makes all methods available for all.
- `login` method without an annotation. And as a result, it uses `AccountService` scope - `@Public`.
- `getPublicUserProfile` method with `@RequireRole(Role.Teacher)`. Only teachers are allowed to call this endpoint.

### Auth Header

To get access scope of some roles, you need to have an access token tied to an account with that role.  
Your access token must be sent in Auth header with a request in the following schema:

```
Authorization: JWT ${accessToken}
```

#### Get testing access token
The easiest way to get an access token for some test purposes is through classtime website:
1. Go to a [Classtime website](https://www.classtime.com/auth/login) and authorize using any method (e.g. with Google).
2. Open "classtime.com" cookies in the developer console of the browser. (see e.g. [how to do it in Google Chrome](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/application/cookies/#open))

> 3. Copy a value of a cookie with the name: "service-jwt-0". It is your's teacher account access token.

Reviewer: NIT: Grammer
```suggestion
3. Copy the value of the cookie with the name: "service-jwt-0". It is your teacher account's access token.
```
(or the access token of your teacher account)

## JSON requests

JSON requests are the easiest point to start. However, we are recommending to use binary requests.  
Note: **POST is the only supported method**

> **Public AccountService.login call**:

Reviewer: Use ### instead of bold?

```
curl -v https://www.classtime.com/service/public/Account/login \
    -X POST \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json,*/*' \
    -d '{ provider: "Google", role: "Teacher" }'
```
```
Response: { "redirectUrl": "https://accounts.google.com..." }
```

**Restricted AccountService.getPublicUserProfile call**:
Pre-requirement: you must know your account id and access token. You could obtain it following [this small guide](https://github.com/gopollock/public-api/blob/main/flow-examples/my-account-id.md).

```

> curl -v https://www.classtime.com/service/public/Account/getPublicUserProfile \

Author: Some URLs might not work valid now. Reason:
1. We do not support `service/public` yet
2. getPublicUserProfile and getMyAccountInfo renames are not released yet on the prod

So, I will wait some time for prod and this doc to align.

    -X POST \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json,*/*' \
    -H 'Authorization: JWT ${yourTeacherAccessToken}' \
    -d '{ account_id: ${yourAccountId} }'
```
```
Response: {
    "email": "you@email.com",
    userProfile: {
      "firstName": "John",
      "lastName": "White",
      "picture": "",
    }
    ...,
}
```

## Binary requests

Pre-requirement for binary requests are generated protobuf. They would help you to serialize requests and deserialize responses.  
The full process of protobuf generation and usage is described in [generating protos guide](https://github.com/gopollock/public-api/blob/main/generate-protos.md).

**Public AccountService.login call**:
```
curl -v https://www.classtime.com/service/Account/login \
    -X POST \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/protobuf' \
    -H 'Accept: application/protobuf,*/*' \
    -d '' \

>     -o output.bin | tee output.bin

Reviewer: That seems wrong, -o already writes to a file no?

Author: Yes, it is enough to have `-o` or `tee`.
Both write to file. And `tee` additionally logs written content in terminal

```
Response: `LoginResponse` in binary format

`-d ''` is an empty binary. It will result in default values for all fields.  
You could replace it with your serialized value.

**Restricted AccountService.getPublicUserProfile call**:
Pre-requirement: you must know your account id and access token. You could obtain it following [this small guide](https://github.com/gopollock/public-api/blob/main/flow-examples/my-account-id.md).

```
curl -v https://www.classtime.com/service/public/Account/getPublicUserProfile \
    -X POST \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/protobuf' \
    -H 'Accept: application/protobuf,*/*' \
    -H 'Authorization: JWT ${yourTeacherAccessToken}' \
    -d ${protobufBinaryRequestData} \
    -o output.bin | tee output.bin

```
Response: `UserProfileResponse` in binary format

## Rate limits

> Classtime limits requests to 800 (requests / min) per IP address or authorized account.

Reviewer: Better be more explicit: It is either
- per IP address for unauthorized requests or
- per user for authorized requests.

Please, contact our support@classtime.com, if you believe it's a too low value for you.

## API versions

Currently, there is only 1 ongoing continuously developed real-time version of API.  
Unfortunately, this strategy might have a high rate of introducing breaking changes.  

> 

Reviewer: We should add that protos are by its nature backwards and forwards compatible: Each field has a default value and additional fields get ignored. This does not help if the application itself requires that e.g. a string field is non-empty.

# Classtime public API

> Classtime servers communicate using a protobuf-over-HTTP protocol. In this repository under [the services directory](./services/), you would be able to find all interface definitions and protobuf messages. However, we also support plain [JSON requests](./README.md#json-requests) based on protobuf messages.

Reviewer: The service directory is "./classtime/servce/" now?

To become familiar with service usage you could jump right into specific [flow examples](./flow-examples/). Or you could follow this ReadMe for some general explanations and examples.

## Interface sample

We will use this interface and proto messages as a sample in the examples below:

```kt
@Public
interface AccountService : Service {

    companion object {
        const val NAME = "Account"
    }

    /**
     * Initiates a log in process. It will redirect the user to the authentication provider.
     */
    fun login(context: RequestContext, request: LoginRequest): LoginResponse

    /**
     * Return account's public profile data by id provided in request.
     *
     * @throws ServiceError.NotFound there is no account with provided id.
     */
    @RequireRole(Role.Teacher)
    fun getPublicUserProfile(context: RequestContext, request: UserProfileRequest): UserProfileResponse

    ...
}
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```protobuf
```

message LoginRequest {
  AuthenticationProvider provider = 1;
  classtime.service.common.Role role = 2;
}

message LoginResponse {
  string redirect_url = 1;
}

message UserProfileRequest {
  string account_id = 1;
}

message UserProfileResponse {
  string email = 1;
  string first_name = 2;
  string last_name = 3;
  classtime.service.common.Role role = 4;
}
```

## URLs construction

Each API end point consists of 3 concatenated parts:
1. Our server public host: https://www.classtime.com/service/public/
2. Service name (e.g. Account, School, Library)
3. Service method name (e.g. createAccount, login, associateTeacher)

Based on [interface sample](./README.md#interface-sample), we could specify such endpoints:
```
https://www.classtime.com/service/public/Account/login
https://www.classtime.com/service/public/Account/getPublicUserProfile
```

## Role permissions

> Each service and service's methods contain an annotation limiting access to specific roles. And of course, methods annotations have higher priority. For example, in the [interface sample](./README.md#interface-sample), there are:

Reviewer: Small grammar correction
```suggestion
Each service and service method contains an annotation limiting access to specific roles. And of course, method annotations have higher priority. For example, in the [interface sample](./README.md#interface-sample), there are:
```

1. Go to a [Classtime website](https://www.classtime.com/auth/login) and authorize using any method (e.g. with Google).
2. Open "classtime.com" cookies in the developer console of the browser. (see e.g. [how to do it in Google Chrome](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/application/cookies/#open))
3. Copy the value of the cookie with the name: "service-jwt-0". It is the access token of your teacher account.

## JSON requests

JSON requests are the easiest point to start. However, we are recommending to use binary requests.  
Note: **All requests use the HTTP POST method**

### Public AccountService.login call:
```
curl -v https://www.classtime.com/service/public/Account/login \
    -X POST \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json,*/*' \
    -d '{ provider: "Google", role: "Teacher" }'
```
```
Response: { "redirectUrl": "https://accounts.google.com..." }
```

### Restricted AccountService.getPublicUserProfile call:
Pre-requirement: you must know your account id and access token. You could obtain it following [this small guide](./flow-examples/my-account-id.md).

```

> curl -v https://www.classtime.com/service/public/Account/getPublicUserProfile \

Reviewer: According to the discussion of today: Are we going to have this method or not?

Author: Yes, we do. I will use another method here
